Dart flexible sync (#11)
realm/realm-dart-samples: dart_flexible_sync/README.md

![Realm](https://github.com/realm/realm-dart/raw/master/logo.png)

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

## A simple command-line application using [Realm Dart SDK](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/sdk/flutter/#dart-standalone-realm) Flexible Sync with [Atlas App Services application](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/).
This sample demonstrates the usage of Flexible Sync with Realm Dart SDK. 
Writing to a local realm sends the data automatically to the Atlas Cloud Collection.
Then the local realm is subscribed only for items matching specific query criterias.
This causes the local realm to be populated only with specific items matching the filter. 
All other items will exist only in Atlas cloud collection.

# Realm Dart SDK

> The Realm Dart package is `realm_dart` and it is available in [pub.dev](https://pub.dev/packages/realm_dart)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Realm Dart package is `realm_dart` and it is available on [pub.dev](https://pub.dev/packages/realm_dart)
```
I think

## Environment setup for Realm Dart

* Supported platforms are Windows, Mac and Linux.

> * Dart SDK ^2.17.1

Reviewer: We do actually support 2.17.0 currently

# Atlas App Services Configuration Steps

* Create an account in [realm.mongodb.com](https://realm.mongodb.com) - follow the instructions: [Get Started with Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/getting-started)

> * Creat a new app following the instruction: [Create an App with Atlas App Services UI](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/manage-apps/create/create-with-realm-ui).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a new app following the instructions here: [Create an App with Atlas App Services UI](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/manage-apps/create/create-with-realm-ui).
```

    For the purpose of this sample you don't need to create an app from a template. You can just create an empty application.
* Click the button in the blue line above - `Review draft & deploy`.

> * Go to `Authentication Providers` menu from the left panel and make sure the option "Allow users to log in anonymously" is ON.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Go to the `Authentication Providers` menu in the left panel and make sure the option "Allow users to log in anonymously" is ON.
```
I think

    Read [this page](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/authentication/providers/) for more information about the other types of authentication.
* Go to `Sync` menu and [Enable Flexible Sync](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/sync/configure/enable-sync/#enable-flexible-sync).

>     * You can skip button "Create a Schema". Choose "No thanks, continue to Sync".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Don't create a schema. Skip by choosing "No thanks, continue to Sync".
```
I think we should ensure the user don't think they can choose their own schema here

>     * Please choose button "Flexible Sync". Only Flexible Sync is supported in Realm Dart SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Press the "Flexible Sync" button. Only Flexible Sync is supported in the Realm Dart SDK.
```
It is an order :-)

>     * Switch ON ["Development mode"](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/sync/data-model/development-mode/) option. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Switch ON the ["Development mode"](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/sync/data-model/development-mode/) option. 
```
I think

>     * Choose to create a new database collection and set a name of this database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Create a new database collection and choose a name for this.
```

    * Create a new queryable field used for filtering data between both realms in this application. For our sample the fields are `status` and `progressMinutes`. 
        Since it is not available in the selection list, just start writing inside the selection box and then choose `Create status`. 
        It will be created.

>         Do the same for field `progressMinutes`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Do the same for the field `progressMinutes`.
```

>     * Define permission - for the purpose of this sample please choose the optionn `Users can read and write all data`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Define permission - for the purpose of this sample choose the option `Users can read and write all data`.
```

    * Click the button `Enable Sync` and confirm.

>     * Click again the button in the blue line above - `Review draft & deploy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Click the button in the blue line above - `Review draft & deploy`, again.
```

> * Copy App ID of your new application. Follow [Find an App ID](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/reference/find-your-project-or-app-id/?_ga=2.267445390.1225817147.1654079983-1571915642.1647002315&_gac=1.229371374.1654173423.CjwKCAjwv-GUBhAzEiwASUMm4jBtzETN-YJq0KELgeGLKk-4_6wVAfImtPoBbo-A35_eKjZ1p0Lh_BoCotcQAvD_BwE#find-an-app-id)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Copy the App ID of your new application. Follow [Find an App ID](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/reference/find-your-project-or-app-id/?_ga=2.267445390.1225817147.1654079983-1571915642.1647002315&_gac=1.229371374.1654173423.CjwKCAjwv-GUBhAzEiwASUMm4jBtzETN-YJq0KELgeGLKk-4_6wVAfImtPoBbo-A35_eKjZ1p0Lh_BoCotcQAvD_BwE#find-an-app-id)
```

* Go to `tasktracker.dart` in this sample and set your App ID to the constant `appId` as follow: 
    ```dart
    String appId = "tasktracker-fleld";;
    ```

These steps are for the purpose of the sample. You can follow the instructions 
in [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas) for more advanced and secured configurations.

## Usage

* Add `realm_dart` package to a Dart application.

    ```
    dart pub add realm_dart
    ```

* Install the `realm_dart` package into the application. This downloads and copies the required native binaries to the app directory.

    ```
    dart run realm_dart install
    ``` 

> 

Reviewer: Should this be here, and if it should, then what about `dart run realm_dart generate`?  Perhaps better to just refer to the realm_dart README

Reviewer 2: Good catch. We need only `dart run realm_dart install`
